---
layout: post
title: 8th Light apprenticeship - Day Six
categories: 8thLight apprenticeship
---

### Pills
- First working human v human implementation!
- Some of the functions in my application now have side effects (storing the board
state, printing and reading from console)...I wonder if I should unit test these
or whether the coverage from integration tests is sufficient. 
- I like how in Elixir mutable state is a separate thing that you have to 'opt' into. 

Today I got my first implementation of the game (tictactoe) working in human_v_human
mode. I look forward to tomorrow's IPM (Iteration Planning Meeting) so I can start
getting feedback on my work and get my mentors' opinions on the application design.
I am not too ecstatic with my code, but I am happy it is written down and working,
so I can start picking it apart and making it better.

One thing that I am not sure about is whether I should have unit tests for functions
that have side effects. Although side effects should be limited to as few as possible,
I think it is impossible not to have them in the user interface and board state 
modules. This is because operations like printing something to the console, or 
updating mutable state have side effects by definition: the purpose of a  function 
like *print result* is not to return a value, but to send a message to a third party.
Now, at the moment, I am covering side-effect-infected behaviour with integration
tests, however I am not sure this should also have unit tests, as that would 
probably require adopting a framework that gives me spies.

I have been using the Agent module to manage the board status throughout the game.
I really like how in Elixir, since mutable state does not exist, if you really have
to use it, then it feels like a very formal process, where you have to send your
state to a process and send further messages to retrieve it and update it.

Ciao
