---
layout: post
title: 8th Light apprenticeship - Day Three
categories: 8thLight apprenticeship
---

### Pills
 - I should not include implementation details in my test descriptions.
 - I have added a [page](http://andreamazzarella.com/books.html) to this blog to 
list all books I will be reading. I am also taking notes as I read. Links to my 
notes are on the books page.

This morning I quickly found a working solution to the roman numerals kata, first
using a lot of pattern matching using literals to "consume" the input number while 
accumulating the output string.

I then spent some time working on finding the common pattern and making it into a
function that is invoked with a list of roman_to_numeral pairs. This included an
if statement and did not quite work for all numbers.

Finally, after a quick chat with Daisy about her approach to the problem, I leveraged
pattern matching to arrive at a clear and concise solution. I still really like 
pattern matching.

I also had a conversation with Chris, one of my two mentors about my final solution
and the tension between the tidiness of multiple function definitions using pattern 
matching and ease of comprehension. For example, let us say you have a recursive
function that has one base case and one recursive clause. This could either be 
expressed with two function definitions using pattern matching and/or guard clauses
or simply in one function using an if/else clause. Here it is:

{% highlight elixir %}

#Let us say the base case for this recursive function is when the input is 0

defmodule RecursiveWithMultipleDeclarations do


  def recursive_function(input) when input === 0 do 
    # base case
  end 

  def recursive_function(input) do
    # recursive case
  end

end

defmodule RecursiveInOneClause do

  def recursive_function(input) do
    if (input === 0) do
      # base case
    else
      # recursive case
    end
  end 

end
{% endhighlight %}

I prefer the first one. However, I think the choice will depend on the situation, 
with simplicity as the main parameter for making the decision.

Chris also pointed out that my test descriptions reveal implementation details, 
which is a good point, so I need to remind myself to make my test descriptions 
more about the expected behaviour than how it is implemented or the signature of
the function.

I then started reading a book, Programming in Elixir, which I am really enjoyng.
Just one cool thing from it: assignment does not really exist in Elixir, not in 
the way it is meant in imperative languages. In Elixir, the *=* operator can be 
likened to what is means in mathematical equations. So, if I say *x = 5 + 3*, x is
bound to the value 8 just because that is the only way x can be equal to 8.

Ciao
