---
layout: post
title: 8th Light apprenticeship - Day Nine
categories: 8thLight apprenticeship
---

### Pills
- (TicTacToe in Elixir) UI now solely interfaces with the Game module (used to 
also 'talk' to the player).
- First implementation of HumanVMachine (very dumb machine).

Today I mostly worked on my TicTacToe implementation: player is now an interface
that is implemented by the various players available (Human and linear_machine, 
which chooses the first available move.
Basically, something can ask a Player, be it human or machine, for the next
move and the Player, of whatever type, will pick a move. Cool.

One change in code arrangement I made was to 'hide' the player away from the user
interface: this used to ask the player for a move then pass it to the game to 
update it. However, since the game includes the players and knows whose turn it 
is, it seems much cleaner to simply have the user_interface 'tell' the game to go
ahead and process the next move (which will involve asking a player for it, then
updating the board and swapping turns). In short, the UI now only talks to the game,
which feels good.

An interesting question I have is about what I am going to refer to as *scaffolding
tests*. When working on the public interface of a module, I found myself writing
tests for tiny methods that the eventual public methods make use of. This has the 
advantage of allowing baby-steps development, however I wonder if I should be 
deleting these tests and only leave tests for the public interface at the end, as 
the 'baby-steps', while they could be reused in the future, should really be private
utility methods for the main public ones. This one is in my list of questions, so
hopefully I will get other people's opinion on the matter!

Ciao
