---
layout: post
title: 8th Light apprenticeship - Day One
categories: 8thLight apprenticeship
---

Hi! First day of the apprenticeship - I am really excited about this and super 
happy to be here :)

I am going to try and have a condensed-learnings section at the top of each post,
sortalike TL;DR-style (too long don't read), which I am going to call 'pills'.

### Pills
  - Estimating is risky business, which requires experience and transparency 
towards the stakeholders
  - The office environment is really nice.
  - There is a fundamental difference between variable assignment and binding 
(box-with-label vs label methaphor). 

Today started with an induction with my two mentors and some admin. We discussed
the plan for my apprenticeship, expectations, etc..

In the first few weeks I will be picking up a functional language, Elixir, which
I am really excited about.

At lunchtime the company invited the rest of the building to introduce themselves;
it was nice to meet the neighbours.

The office environment is so refreshing! Everyone seems relaxed, very happy to 
help, and, most importantly, they all love what they do and want to keep getting 
better at it. I also really like self-sufficiency: it seems that there is no need
to tell people what to do, as whenever something needs doing, someone just does it.

Amongst other things, I filled in a self-assessment form, which I feel perfectly 
reflects the spirit of continual learning: I am aware that I have heaps to learn
and I look forward to keep going back to the form see my improvement.

Another strategy I am going to use to make myself accountable and keep track of 
what I am doing is the [Pomodoro technique](http://cirillocompany.de/pages/pomodoro-technique)
along with a spreadsheet where I am logging how I spend each pomodoro. Hopefully
this data will prove useful in the future and give me insights on how long it 
takes me to do things. This is premature, but I am thinking I might build an app 
to keep track of all these logs as a pet project.

In the afternoon I read an article about estimation and then moved onto 
familiarising with Elixir.

A few notes on the article; the main methodology used here is PERT, which stands
for Project Evalutation and Review Techniques. In a nutshell, this is a weighted 
average using an optimistic estimate, a realistic and a pessimistic one. Another
consideration is how granularity affects estimates: the more granular an estimation
gets, the more accuracy can be achieved, although this is more expensive, as it 
takes more time, and carries its own risk as there can be unknown areas, and a 
certain guess is bound to be wrong. In general, just-in-time estimations are to 
be preferred, as the most knowledge is available. Finally, in presenting progress
to the stakeholders, it is important to be transparent and honest. 

Onto Elixir!
I am really happy about this: I have been wanting to play with functional 
programming for a while so this is great.
I first read the overview and some of the introduction pages from the langauage's 
website (great docs!), then got going with the Koans, which are open source and 
where made by some peeps at 8thLight :)
So far so good, this is a nice way to explore various data types available and 
available functions.

A few random thoughts so far:

- Elixir compiles to run on the Erlang Virtual Machine. Neat. Also means you can
use any library from the Erlang ecosystem.
- Elixir is both vertically and horizontally scalable as a plethora of independent
processes are spawned into life and communicate with each other either within a
machine or a network.
- Pattern matching. I need to learn more about this but it is a pretty cool feat
of the language whereby a binding or the input of a function can be described as 
a pattern (a bit like regex I guess?), to make for more flexible functionality. 
- An attribute of a function is its *airity*, which is how many parameters it 
takes. This is important because you can define the same function with a different
number of parameters. We refer to arity with the following convention: *foo/0*, 
*foo/1*, whereby the first function takes no arguments, whereas the second one 
takes one.
- Linked lists exist; this is new to me. In these, each element has a pointer to 
the next one. You can ask a list for its head or tail, which is pretty cool. You
can also do this in pattern matching, where you can say *[head | tail] = [1,2,3]*
and have *head => 1* *tail => [2,3]*
- Tuples are, so far as I can tell, the same as arrays in Ruby.
- I think I like sigils.
- The REPL has a cool function, i/1 that gives you information on data. Try it.

Ciao
