---
layout: post
title: 8th Light apprenticeship - Day Five
categories: 8thLight apprenticeship
---

### Pills
- So happy to be working at 8th Light :)
- I need to 'break the ice' faster when facing a new domain or a macro-design 
challenge.
- Quarterly event was really fun (Crystal Maze!).

First week is over, and I am having so much fun! You can tell I am really enjoying
this as I can never remember what day of the week it is and in the mornings I 
cannot wait to get to the office to carry on working on whatever it is I am 
working on. Awesome. Doing what I like, learning all the time, surrounded by 
people who also love they do and will guide me on the way.

This has been my first week at 8th Light, where I started picking up functional 
programming using Elixir. I feel happy with what I have achieved and I can see 
that I have learned heaps. Elixir is fantastic and I really enjoyed solving 
problems with different approaches. I particularly like the use of recursion and 
pattern-matching; it feels very powerful and can be expressive if who is reading
is familiar with both concepts.

Today I carried on working on the tictactoe, and found myself struggling with 
the design of the application. I think I spend too much time evaluating how to design
the application from a macroscopic point of view, worrying about fine details and 
implications of different code arrangements. Now that I have a few bits of 
functionality available, I should integrate them to finish my first story (user 
can input a move to update the board). However, I am struggling to think of a test
and am trying to figure out the design in my head (and a few sketches on paper).
I should instead 'break the ice' sooner and get my hands dirty with some spikes, 
so I can get a feel for what is best. Currently my approach is similar to design
for  construction, where everything has to be carefully though of beforehand, as 
any mistakes can be very costly (imagine a house with all door openings smaller
than expected: all doors have to be altered or bought again!). However, the beauty
of software is that, especially at this stage, in such a small application, change 
is free, so I could simply put down some lines of code and play around with them
to see what works best. One of the reasons I am not doing this, is the disciplined 
TDD-er in me, as I would like to only write code that fixes a failing 
test; but I think I should find a balance: when I am exploring a new domain, or
thinking about how to design a system, perhaps I should first spike a solution 
together, so that instead of deliberating all the pros and cons of the various 
options in my head, I can actually see them written down and running, and then
throw the spike away and start over with tests. I am going to give this a shot 
on Monday. I can put down a crappy working solution and then analyse it and 
rearrange the code to have a better design. This reminds me of a paragraph I really
like from Clean Code:

*Writing software is like any other kind of writing. When you write a paper or an article, you get your thoughts down first, then you massage it until it reads well. The first draft might be clumsy and disorganized, so you wordsmith it and restructure it and refine it until it reads the way you want it to read.
When I write functions, they come out long and complicated. They have lots of indenting and nested loops. They have long argument lists. The names are arbitrary, and there is duplicated code. But I also have a suite of unit tests that cover every one of those clumsy lines of code.
So then I massage and refine that code, splitting out functions, changing names, elim- inating duplication. I shrink the methods and reorder them. Sometimes I break out whole classes, all the while keeping the tests passing.
In the end, I wind up with functions that follow the rules I’ve laid down in this chapter. I don’t write them that way to start. I don’t think anyone could.*

In the afternoon we had a quarterly event; we went to play the Crystal Maze, 
which was really fun, and went to the pub afterwards. So many nice people, it was
really enjoyable :)

Uh, and I am also enjoying solving coding puzzles from the 
[advent of code](http://adventofcode.com/).

Ciao


