---
layout: post
title: 8th Light apprenticeship - Day Eight
categories: 8thLight apprenticeship
---

### Pills
- Mini fist-pump: I rolled my own spy in Elixir.
- I have started to be disciplined with my git branches, opening a branch for a
small subset of changes and making sure I just focus on those changes.
- The skeletal design of my TicTacToe is taking shape and I like it. I am so 
grateful to be doing the apprenticeship, as I am able to spend time thinking about 
different code arrangements and their pros/cons. 

Today started with a Zagaku (small workshop/talk by one of staff for the apprentices/
the rest of the office) run by Nick, one of my mentors. It was about two code 
smells: *feature envy* and *long parameters list*. I am not going to talk about 
these here, but it was great. I might sound like a broken record, but I love the
culture of continual learning at the office; everyone is eager to learn and 
constantly improve.
 
I then carried on working on my TicTacToe implementation in Elixir. I am very 
happy with it today. I have not added any new features, but rearranged the code in a way 
that I think makes a lot more sense, with clear separation of concerns between the
various modules. I will try to explain, but it might be hard in a few lines and 
out of context. A big tension that will always exist in any implementation of this 
game is between the user interface and whatever runs the game (let's call this 
game_engine). A number of actions have to be performed between user interface and game_engine,
including printing the board to the screen, managing whose turn it 
is, asking a player for the next move, updating the board with the next move, 
finding out if the game is over and printing the game result. It would be nice if
the two concerns (user interface and game running) were as independent from each
other as possible, though they have to be dependent on each other in some way; 
for example, the user interface has to ask the game_engine if the game is over 
before it can print the outcome; or the game_engine has to tell the user interface
that the game is over so that a prompt is put out to the screen. OK, so one way
or another they have to know about (read: *be dependent to*) each other. Within
this interaction, there are only three possible arrangements, here they are:

`user_interface -> game_engine` 

`game_engine -> user_interface`

`game_engine <-> user_interface`

Now, as a rule of thumb, dependencies should be limited as much as possible, so
the latter option above is definitely not what we want, which leaves
us with either user_interface dependent on the game_engine or vice-versa.
So which one is the better one? In order to answer this question we need to ask
another question: which module is least likely to change, and more abstract than 
the other? Hopefully you will agree that that is the game_engine. I can think of
so many ways in which the user interface can change, not just in what is shown, 
but also how it is shown (currently strings sent to the console, but could very
easily be rendered views from a server). I cannot say the same for the game_engine.
OK, so this leaves us with choosing the following dependency arrangement 
`user_interface -> game_engine`, where the game_engine is independent from the 
user_interface.
In my initial implementation, this was not the arrangement. Here is a history of 
it:

- All game is run from within the game_engine: no concept of a separate user_interface.
- User_interface logic moved onto a UI module, called from within the game_engine.
At this stage the game_engine is dependent on the user_interface.
- Inversion of the dependency direction: the user interface now calls the 
game_engine to run a game. However, the user_interface still knows too much about
how a game is run; for example, swapping whose turn it is is handled by user_interface.
- Move any residual game logic into the game module, so now the interaction is as
follows: the user interface is given a game, to which it can ask the current player
and then give the game the move that was chosen by the current player. It can also ask 
the game for its status (incomplete, draw, win).

Another interesting aspect is the fact that I have introduced some side-effects 
in the game module, in exchange of less knowledge required from the user_interface.
Let me explain: in order to figure out whether it should ask for the next move, or
print the outcome of the game, the user_interface has to ask someone for the game
status. Now, I am not going to explain why, but this should be the Board module 
itself. However, this means that the user_interface now suddenly has to also be 
dependent on the Board as well as the Game, unless the Game has a method that 
delegates this operation to the board, which is what I did. Delegating a message
is by definition a side effect, but I feel this is an acceptable drawback, as it
makes the game have a nice and unified interface from the point of view of the user_interface.

Checking message delegation is something I had not had to do so far, as pure 
functions do not make calls to third parties: they just take some input, do something 
with it, and return something. So I had to use a spy to check that a certain 
message was being sent to the board from the game module. I researched this and found a way to
make my own. Hurray! It is pretty simple: Elixir's testing framework allows you 
to check if the current process has received a certain message. So what I did is 
inject the Board module, into the delegating Game function. In the test, I inject
a spy, which simply sends an atom `:message_received` to itself. This way you can
assert that the :message_received was received, meaning the function on the spy 
module was invoked. Here's what it looks like:

{% highlight elixir %}
defmodule SpyBoard do

  def status(_) do
    send self, :spy_board_received_status_call
  end

end
{% endhighlight %}

Hopefully that made some sense :)

One final thought: I have started being disciplined with making changes to my code
granular and controlled, using git branches to keep focus on what I am doing. 
So, if I am working on branch `do_thing_a` and find myself getting distracted 
thinking about doing `thing_b`, then I make a mental (or better written) note
and go back to the task at hand. One easy thing at a time instead of a million 
things at once. This feels a bit like certain types of meditation, where you are
focusing on, say, counting your breathing and if your mind wanders, you simply 
acknowledge that and go back to the counting. Focus.

Ciao
