---
layout: post
title: 8th Light apprenticeship - Day Four
categories: 8thLight apprenticeship
---

### Pills
- With inside-out development, I need to make sure I only work on what is 
essential. I should keep looking at the story I am working on and make sure I only
implement what is essential for it.
- I like how with pattern matching guard variables can be replaced with atoms and
then explicitly caught in the appropriate function declaration.

Today started with a flat tyre on my bicycle; boooo. At least the tyre was already
flat when I picked it up, so I could just get changed and get on a bus. Such good
blog material!

This morning I implemented the bubble sort algorithm in Elixir, which took me 
significantly less than anticipated. I think the missed estimation is not extremely 
bad as I had never used Elixir before when I came up with the figure and never 
implemented the algorithm. I am pretty happy with my solution, though I look 
forward to getting some feedback on this as I wonder if I am getting too excited 
with pattern matching and over-doing it.

Also this morning Enrique ran a Zagaku, where he presented a variation on a 
Kanban board to include personal tasks as well as work ones, to organise life and
work all in one place. I am not sure I am going to adopt this but it sounds pretty
cool. I really like how the idea is for the list to be human-centric, so that even
though you could have it in digital form, with analytics and fancy graphics, 
having a physical version means you can touch it, you can move tickets from 
*in_progress* to *done* and get a tiny (or large!) bit of satisfaction from this.

Over lunch I attempted the first puzzle from advent of code. I am trying to use
Elixir, here is my solution to [day one](https://github.com/andreamazza89/y2016/blob/master/lib/one.ex) 
(woops, needs refactoring!).

I then started working on a tictactoe implementation in Elixir. I am going to 
approach this from the inside-out rather than outside-in. I generally prefer 
outside-in, as I like the idea of defining what the user wants from  the system 
we are building with a test, and using that to then guide us, however there are
no silver bullets and I need to be comfortable with both approaches. I think I 
already have some feedback for myself: I should make sure I only write code 
for the story I am working as it is easy to get carried away and develop additional
functionality, especially as I am already familiar with the domain. Today I was 
working on allowing a user to add a move to the board, so I started working on 
a *add_move* function. Once finished, I then got carried away with board-related
functions and also developed a function to check for a winner, draw, etc... 
Although I will need this at some point, it is not necessary for the current story,
so that it will take me longer to finish the story and I might have made assumptions
that might mean I will have to delete some code.

Ciao
