---
layout: post
title: 8th Light apprenticeship - Day Two
categories: 8thLight apprenticeship
---

### Pills
 - I need to be more strict with my blogging and have a set time at which I make sure I have done it before the end of the day.
 - Processes and protocols in Elixir are pretty cool.
 - I need to get better at finding a strategy to solve a problem fast. Think about the problem > think of a few solutions > start exploring and figuring out the which is best (or amongst the best) fast.

Day two. A lot of physical activity today: I cycled to a swimming pool next to the office, swam, then after work cycled back and played a game of basketball. Tonight I will sleep well!

This morning I had a nice quick session of whiteboarding with Fabien, who proposed an algorithmic problem, and we then pondered about the different pros/cons of a few solutions we came up with, in terms of memory efficiency and performance (big O).

I then resumed work on the Elixir koans, which I finished just after a lovely lunch with my mentors featuring a humongous steak sandwich.

I really enjoyed the koans. I probably will not retain all of the information, but it was very helpful and I got a good flavour of the quirks of the language. I made sure I kept referring to the Elixir docs on the various topics to solidify/clarify new concepts and also had a REPL open to play with it. Processes are such a cool thing, as is pattern matching.
One of the things I want to work on is getting a better understanding of the whys and the hows of all the data structures available. Coming from Ruby/Javascript, I have not had all these options before. So far, I am looking at it from a very utilitarian way: if I need to do something, I look at the API available for a certain structure and use it. I plan to then retrospect and see if I could have used a different one and whether that would make a difference.
Protocols are also pretty interesting, and allow polymorphism: You can define an interface and declare which data types it supports.

I then spent the rest of the afternoon working on the Roman Numerals kata. A few things for me to think about. Firstly, when I am down to this level of granularity, I think I should think about a time frame and then once this has elapsed check how I am doing and notice any offset. This would probably help with estimation and also make me more time-aware. 

One thing I find hard to figure out is how to approach TDD. Let me explain. I love the idea of an emergent design and baby steps. Whenever I can, I try to work this way; write a test that makes me write the simplest code, then slowly add tests to move the initial snippet into the final solution. There can be two problems with this: one being the order and nature of the tests, the other the fact that sometimes this approach does not work, especially when a recursive algorithm is to be involved. What happened today is that I started merrily along this path, adding one test after the other, however after a while, as tests grew in specifics, my code did not get more general. I could see clouds growing around it and no way out. At which point I thought it would be better to just think of an algorithm and implement it. This is unfortunately very hard, or maybe impossible to do with tests-first and baby steps, but it does have the advantage to just work if well thought and executed. I had a very similar tension with my tic-tac-toe: at first I started implementing the specific strategy one test at a time, but as the rules got more and more specific, I ditched that approach and simply wrote the algorithm that passed all tests at once. The major disadvantage is that this involves a lot of time in the red zone. Anyway, back to the roman numerals, as I felt bad for having 'wasted' some time trying it with baby steps, I could not think very clearly and forced myself into committing to an algorithm. It works on paper, I have almost finished implementing it, but I do not like it one bit.
I intend to ask around/look online for answers on the test-first/baby steps vs recursion conundrum.

After work (And before basketball) I went for a couple of pints with our director, Jim, which was very nice. He also gave mean idea for a different algorithm, which I will try tomorrow.

Ciao
