---
layout: post
title: 8th Light apprenticeship - Day Ten
categories: 8thLight apprenticeship
---

### Pills
- First two weeks at 8th Light have been fantastic.
- I have a feedback form, go ahead and leave me some feedback [here](https://andreamazza89.typeform.com/to/nZWYxZ)!

What a great two weeks: I am so happy to be working at 8th Light as apprentice.
8th Light's apprenticeship is a period of time(variable, but around six months)
that each new employee goes through, to work on all the skills and knowledge 
necessary to be a software crafter for the company.
I feel blessed and humbled to be able to spend my whole time learning during this 
period, and I am enjoying it so much! Not only that, but I also get to discuss 
what I am doing and how with fellow apprentices as well as my mentors and really 
anyone else in the office, as everyone is invested in helping each other be a 
better developer and consultant. What's more, there is no end to the learning: 
even when the apprenticeship finishes, I will still be learning heaps, as there
is so much to get through and get better at! In fact, I do not think there will ever 
be a point at which the learning will stop, and I would not want it to! This idea
is fully embraced and preached by the company, as one of the principles it is 
based on is continual learning; in fact, every Friday afternoon is devoted to 
this: there is no client work being done, just workshops, pairing, 
discussions... Amazing right?

I have been blogging daily as part of the apprenticeship, but have not been 
posting these on social media as they are very contextual. Feel free to browse 
through them if you are interested.

In these two first weeks I have been learning a new language, and with it, a 
different programming paradigm than the one I had been using so far: the language is
Elixir and the paradigm is Functional programming. I am really enjoying Elixir, 
and I can see how it is opening my mind as I can solve the same problem in a 
different way from what I would do with object-oriented programming. A pertinent
metaphor here would be about how my tool-set only had a hammer in it and suddenly
I also have a screw-driver, so I can better decide which tool to use based on the 
task at hand. But that would be too cheesy ;) 

One thing I am coming to realise more and more, is how important feedback is for 
learning and getting better at anything. This does not just apply to programming,
but most things in life really. Feedback is how we assess our past actions and 
adjust future ones for optimal results. The shorter the feedback, the most useful
it will be. Let me make a silly example: at a very young age, we learn that we 
should not touch a hot pan as that hurts a lot. Imagine what would happen if the 
pain only kicked in an hour later? We would be in pain, but not learn much from it. 
When writing code, it is so easy to get instant feedback, that it would just be 
silly not to have it. Wherever I can, I have tests that define how the software
I am writing should behave and turn a 'red light' on milliseconds after I change 
something to break them; this is invaluable. 
However, not everything can easily be tested and have a continuously running check
on those tests. I am not talking about writing software specifically, but all the 
activities around it, such as communication, simplicity, respect, analysis, etc...
The difficult thing is that any feedback on these elements is normally given by 
others, and it can be tough to give unsolicited feedback, especially if negative. 
So here is the thing: if you are reading this, and you have any feedback for me,
especially negative, please do not hesitate to reach out and let me know: I would 
be so so grateful, as you will make me a better person/developer.

I have gone one step further: I have created 
[this form](https://andreamazza89.typeform.com/to/nZWYxZ) for  people to leave me 
feedback. This will (or at least might) make it easier for anyone I interact with
to leave me feedback!

Ciao
