---
layout: post
title: 8th Light apprenticeship - Day Seven
categories: 8thLight apprenticeship
---

### Pills
- Paired with Colin Jones, out CTO :)
- Read about differences in classification between test doubles, stubs, spies, 
mocks and fakes. 
- Had a nice IPM (Iteration Planning Meeting).

This morning I paired with Colin over the first part of an 
[advent of code puzzle](http://adventofcode.com/2016/day/6). First, it was nice 
to pair over a problem, as I had not done that in a while. It is also great to see
how humble and kind everyone is in 8th Light: Colin probably has way bigger 
commitments than pairing with me, yet we spent an hour together. Two things I really
liked and will try to keep in mind. One, if any new test felt like it would 
require a large implementation, Colin would strive to find a way to make smaller
steps; baby steps! Two, at times when I thought we could not break down a function
any further, Colin still had his refactoring/abstracting hat on, and would find
a way to generalise the solution.  

I then had my IPM, which was good. We discussed a few aspects of my current design
and new features to implement this week. I feel I have overestimated some of these,
but we shall see. I think I need to have a way to get feedback on my previous 
estimations, as this is essential for me to get better at it. Finally, what I liked
most was how talking through the design with my mentors brought clarity in my head 
and gave me simple, isolated action points. I have a tendency to complicate things
and overly worry about the future of my application, whereas I should strive for 
simplicity and take one small part/module at a time. This afternoon I acted on some of 
the tasks and my code is looking neater (I hope).
I am particularly happy with a helper function that returns a board struct (I am
in Elixir land). There is a tension between showing what the board looks like in
the actual test and making the test succinct and meaningful. Initially, I wrapped
many versions of the board behind helper functions, like this:

{% highlight elixir %}
def empty_board do
  %Board{cells: [:empty,:empty,:empty,:empty,:empty,:empty,:empty,:empty,:empty]}
end

def crosses_wins_row do
  %Board{cells: [:x,:x,:x,:o,:o,:empty,:empty,:empty,:empty]}
end
{% endhighlight %}

This has the potential to bloat as I need more boards 'manufactured' as tests grow
and also has the risk of not being very direct and meaningful (it requires a little
extra step of comprehension when looking at it).
So I changed the helper to be a function, which, when invoked, looks like this:
 
{% highlight elixir %}
create_board([x: [], o:[]]) # this is an empty board
create_board([x: [1,2,3], o:[]]) # this is a board with crosses on the first line
{% endhighlight %}

I like: it is expressive, compact and reusable.

Finally, this afternoon I also read about the various differences between what are
commonly referred to as 'mocks'.

I already had a good grasp of the definitions, but it was nice to read a few 
examples and different opinions, from Martin Fowler and Uncle Bob. I would like to
think I will now use each of the various words appropriately, rather than the 
generic 'mock'. An ultra-quick description of them (in my understanding) follows:

- Test Double
  + Used when a collaborator is required by the system under test, but is never 
used for the purpose of this test, so it can be completely dumb.
- Stub
  + A stub is a fake collaborator that has a hard-baked response to certain 
messages.
- Spy
  + This one keeps track of the messages it is sent. Used for asserting on 
behaviour rather that state.
- Mock
  + Similar to a spy, but it comes with pre-made expectations on what it will be 
sent.
- Fake
  + Despite Uncle Bob saying it is not like a stub, it does sound like a slightly
more sophisticated version of a stub, which implements some business logic. I am 
sure Uncle Bob is right and I just do not know enough to fully understand right 
now.

Nice. Ciao
