---
layout: post
title: 8th Light apprenticeship - Day Forty-six
categories: 8thLight apprenticeship
---

### Pills
- Java interfaces.

Today, as promised, I threw away (well, more like committed then threw away)
yesterday's spike of the chat server, as this was a big blob with many
a responsibility and no modularity. I decided to code inside-out and start from
what I think is the easiest unit: the one that is given a connected socket and
communicates with the remote client. In other words, this sits between the client
socket and the server, so it needs to forward messages from the server to the client
and vice-versa, also giving the server the client's socket, so it can identify
who sent the message.

Hopefully this is simple enough. There are three entities: the server, the unit
I am building (system under test) and the remote client socket. In order to isolate
the unit I am building, I first created a fake client socket, which can have a
message set into its output stream and a helper method to check what was sent to
it. I then did the same for the server side: created a fake of what the server
will eventually be, with a `messageFromClient` method to notify message receipt
and helper methods to check that the method was invoked and the parameters sent.
For both fake entities I created, I wanted them to be of a type that is the same
of the real thing; for instance, the client socket needs to be of the same type
as a Java socket, or else I will only be able to test, and never use the real
thing. The problem is that the `Socket` class inherits directly from `Object` and
only implements the `AutoClosable` interface, which only has the method `close` on it.
So what I initially did is create a `FakeClientSocket` that inherits from `Socket`,
which worked, but (as Mateu pointed out to me while we were pairing) this almost
defies the point of having a fake socket: I wanted to create a very simple class
with a minimal interface just for my test, but I have ended up with the real thing
(as I inherit from it) plus the extra methods and the need for a real server to
connect to. So is there a solution? There is a subset of methods that I want from
Socket, but I do not want the whole thing.
Interface came to the rescue: what I want is for both the real socket and my fake
one to be of the same type, thus implement the same interface, so that they can be
swapped in place and the fake does not inherit from `Socket`. To make the real
socket work, I will wrap it in a class that implements this interface (which I
currently call ClientConnection).
