---
layout: post
title: 8th Light apprenticeship - Day Fifty
categories: 8thLight apprenticeship
---

- A small reflection on naming.

Naming is so important; this is not the first time anyone says it nor is it the
last.

We name classes, methods, modules, interfaces, variables...Everything has a name.
Everything has a name so we can easily think about it and refer to it. When a
codebase has consistent and unambiguous naming, it is easy to reason about, navigate
and, most importantly, change. Names should be clear and concise, yet we should
never sacrifice clarity over character count (if you call an input validator `iv`,
I will be crossed every time I have to remind myself what `iv` was!). To use a
sports metaphor, bad naming is the equivalent of an unforced error: we are
arbitrarily increasing the complexity of our code when we could have done something
about it. Good names are so powerful, that some times trying to name something
reveals potential refactorings. The most fitting example is naming a function:
if we are struggling to find an easy and concise name to describe what the function
is doing, it is probably doing too much and we should have smaller functions share
the total load.

Naming can be hard, which slows us down. Sometimes we have an idea but we are not
sure what to call it yet, as the idea is still cloudy in out brain and we are not
even sure the idea will work. What I do in this situation is defer thinking about
a good name until I have proven the idea to be right. For example, I will call a
function `asdf`, write it, play with it, and only invest time in finding a fitting
name if it turns out to be a good idea. This has two advantages, the first and
obvious one being that we save a lot of otherwise wasted time when the initial
idea does not work out; the second one, is that having a concrete implementation
of an idea in front of us makes it much easier and more effective to find a fitting
name. Much easier than naming a thing we are not yet sure about.
