---
layout: post
title: 8th Light apprenticeship - Day Forty
categories: 8thLight apprenticeship
---

### Pills
- Mobbing an app with other apprentices and Enrique.

Today we started working on the first user story for an internal application we
have been working on with Enrique. The app will be useful but the main purpose
of this is for us apprentices to see an XP(extreme programming) project from
inception to delivery. So far it has been super fun and there is so much to learn
from working with Enrique.

A summary of the project so far follows.

The first thing we did was to create user profiles for our product. I like this,
as it focuses on the end result: why do we need this thing, what do we need it for?
Anything we build should bring value to a user, or else we are wasting our time.
So, before we can write any code, we need someone who has requirements.
We did not just write down names and positions, but drilled down details and
presented each profile to the group. For example, Sam is one of our customers; she
is married, has two kids and loves ceramics. She used to work for a letting agency
and is happy to have moved into technology as a salesperson. Sam cannot stand apps
that require a high level of intuition and cluttered designs. This level of detail
might seem unnecessary, but it gives us a clear picture of our users and allows
us to keep the focus on the receiving end of the product.

Once we had a few user profiles (including sketches of what they look like!), we
worked on profiling the app. Think of this as its personality; as your assistant,
is it friendly, is it submissive? What's its way to talk? What are its colours?...
This helps us creating a uniform and consistent profile, which will help choosing
the right thing to do when multiple options exist, as it should be easy to simply
conform to whatever is in line with the profile we created.

With users and a profile, we worked on a reason for us to start writing code: user
stories. Our users have requirements and we collect these as user stories, with
the format

- _As a_ salesperson
- _I want_ to see a report of last month's sales
- _So that_ I can analyse my performance

(the above is just an example, not part of our project)

And off we were, we finally had a reason to write code. In programming, design
is all about deferring decisions, so rather than spending a whole day figuring
out what database technology to use, what frameworks, and architecture, we simply
agreed on the minimum required to start writing code and started working on it.
We translated the first user story into code, in the form of an acceptance test.
This is pretty cool, as an acceptance test is completely agnostic of the underlying
technology, simply describing the need for a functionality that can be read (or
written by) a customer. Being technology agnostic also means that the tests defining
the application can be used to create a web version, or a desktop version, or a
mobile version: these high-level tests just describe a use-case, regardless of
how it is delivered.

And that is the last thing we have done so far. I shall write another post in
a few weeks to check in on progress!
